---
layout: post
title: "C centric?"
description: ""
category: 
tags: ['booch']
---
## Intro

In Grady Booch's [Object Oriented Design with
Applications](http://www.amazon.com/gp/search?index=books&linkCode=qs&keywords=0805300910)
he is discussing the 4 major elements of the **Object Model**

1. Abstraction
2. Encapsulation
3. Modularity
4. Hierarchy

## Abstraction

He defines an abstraction as

> An abstraction denotes the essential characteristics of an object that
> distinguish it from all other kinds of objects and thus provide crisply
> defined conceptual boundaries, relative to the perspective of the viewer.

## Encapsulation

He then goes on to say about the relationship between abstraction and
encapsulation

> Abstraction and encapsulation are complementary concepts: abstraction focuses
> upon the outside view of an object and encapsulation - also known as
> information hiding - prevents clients from seeing its inside view, where the
> behavior of the abstraction is implemented.

Finally he quotes Liskov

> for abstraction to work, implementation must be encapsulated.

To which he adds

> In practice, this means that each class must have two parts: an interface and
> an implementation. The interface of a class captures only its outside view,
> encompassing our abstraction of the behavior common to all instances of the
> class. The implementation of a class comprises the representation of the
> abstraction as well as the mechanisms that achieve the desired behavior.

## My thoughts

This seems like a very C-centric viewpoint. Which other languages besides the C
dialects split their files into interface and implementations? 

When describing the 4 major elements of the Object Model he says

> By major, we mean that a model without any one of these elements is not object
> oriented.

Does that mean that languages such as javascript, php, and ruby which don't
separate interface and implementation aren't capabale of a true object model?
